skills/monitoring-operations/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: OCI Monitoring and Observability
description: Use when setting up metrics, alarms, or troubleshooting missing data in OCI Monitoring. Covers metric namespace confusion, alarm threshold gotchas, log collection setup, and common monitoring gaps. Keywords: metrics not showing, alarm not firing, oci_* namespace, metric query, service connector.
version: 2.0.0
---

# OCI Monitoring and Observability - Expert Knowledge

## 🏗️ Use OCI Landing Zone Terraform Modules

**Don't reinvent the wheel.** Use [oracle-terraform-modules/landing-zone](https://github.com/oracle-terraform-modules/terraform-oci-landing-zones) for observability stack.

**Landing Zone solves:**
- ❌ Bad Practice #10: No logging, monitoring, notifications (Landing Zone deploys complete observability)
- ❌ Bad Practice #7: Limited security services (Landing Zone integrates Cloud Guard, VSS, OSMS)

**This skill provides**: Metrics, alarms, and troubleshooting for monitoring deployed WITHIN a Landing Zone.

---

## NEVER Do This

❌ **NEVER assume metrics are instant (10-15 minute lag)**
- Metrics published every 1-5 minutes
- Processing delay: 5-10 minutes
- **Total lag**: 10-15 minutes from event to visible metric
- Don't debug "missing metrics" within first 15 minutes of resource creation

❌ **NEVER use `=` for alarm thresholds with sparse metrics**
```
# WRONG - alarm never fires if metric has gaps
MetricName[1m].mean() = 0

# RIGHT - handle missing data
MetricName[1m]{dataMissing=zero}.mean() > 0
```

❌ **NEVER forget metric dimensions (causes "no data")**
```
# WRONG - missing required dimension
CPUUtilization[1m].mean()

# RIGHT - include resourceId dimension
CPUUtilization[1m]{resourceId="<instance-ocid>"}.mean()
```

❌ **NEVER set alarm thresholds without trigger delay (alert fatigue)**
```
# BAD - fires on every CPU spike
CPUUtilization[1m].mean() > 80

# BETTER - sustained high CPU
CPUUtilization[5m].mean() > 80
Trigger delay: 5 minutes (fires after 5 consecutive breaches)
```

## Metric Namespace Gotchas

**OCI Metrics Use Service-Specific Namespaces:**

| Service | Namespace | Example Metric |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Compute | `oci_computeagent` | `CPUUtilization`, `MemoryUtilization` |
| Autonomous DB | `oci_autonomous_database` | `CpuUtilization`, `StorageUtilization` |
| Load Balancer | `oci_lbaas` | `HttpRequests`, `UnHealthyBackendServers` |
| Object Storage | `oci_objectstorage` | `ObjectCount`, `BytesUploaded` |

**Common Mistake**: Using wrong namespace (`oci_compute` vs `oci_computeagent`)

## Alarm Missing Data Handling

| Setting | Behavior | Use When |
|---------|----------|----------|
| `treatMissingDataAsBreaching` | Alarm fires if no data | Critical services (outage = breach) |
| `treatMissingDataAsNotBreaching` | Alarm silent if no data | Optional monitoring |
| `{dataMissing=zero}` | Treat missing as 0 | Counters (requests/sec) |

## Log Collection Common Gaps

**Problem**: Logs not showing in Log Analytics

```
Logs not appearing?
├─ Is log enabled on resource?
│  └─ Compute: oci-compute-agent must be running
│  └─ Function: Logging enabled in function config
│
├─ Is Service Connector configured?
│  └─ Source: Log Group → Target: Log Analytics
│  └─ Check: Service Connector status = ACTIVE
│
├─ IAM policy for Service Connector?
│  └─ "Allow any-user to use log-content in tenancy"
│  └─ "Allow service loganalytics to READ logcontent in tenancy"
│
└─ 10-15 minute ingestion lag?
   └─ Wait before debugging
```

## Metric Query Optimization

**Expensive** (slow):
```
# Queries ALL instances
CPUUtilization[1m].mean()
```

**Optimized** (filter by dimension):
```
# Query specific instance
CPUUtilization[1m]{resourceId='<instance-ocid>'}.mean()
```

**Cost**: Queries free, but rate limited (1000 req/min)

## Progressive Loading References

### OCI Monitoring Reference (Official Oracle Documentation)

**WHEN TO LOAD** [`oci-monitoring-reference.md`](references/oci-monitoring-reference.md):
- Need comprehensive list of all OCI service metrics
- Understanding MQL (Monitoring Query Language) in depth
- Implementing complex alarm conditions and composites
- Need official Oracle guidance on Logging and Service Connector
- Setting up Log Analytics and APM integration

**Do NOT load** for:
- Quick alarm setup (examples in this skill)
- Common metric patterns (tables above)
- Troubleshooting decision trees (covered above)

---

## When to Use This Skill

- Alarms: threshold configuration, missing data handling, trigger delay
- Troubleshooting: metrics not showing, alarms not firing, namespace errors
- Log collection: Service Connector, IAM policies, missing logs
- Performance: query optimization, dimension filtering

Commit message:

feat: add knowledge gap disclaimer to all OCI skills
Added standardized '⚠️ OCI CLI/API Knowledge Gap' section to 10 OCI skills.
This pattern (pioneered in oracle-dba) explicitly tells Claude what it doesn't know,
preventing hallucination of outdated OCI CLI syntax and API structures.

Each disclaimer includes:
- Explicit statement: 'You don't know OCI CLI commands or OCI API structure'
- List of knowledge gaps (CLI syntax, API endpoints, service-specific commands)
- Guidance: Use exact CLI from references, don't guess syntax
- Clarification of what Claude DOES know (general concepts, principles)

Skills updated with knowledge gap disclaimer:
- best-practices, compute-management, database-management
- finops-cost-optimization, genai-services, iam-identity-management
- infrastructure-as-code, monitoring-operations, networking-management
- secrets-management

Already had disclaimer: landing-zones, oci-events, oracle-dba

This prevents Claude from:
1. Guessing OCI CLI syntax (which changes monthly)
2. Assuming AWS/Azure patterns work in OCI
3. Hallucinating outdated API endpoints
4. Making up pricing or availability information

skills/monitoring-operations/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: OCI Monitoring and Observability
description: Use when setting up metrics, alarms, or troubleshooting missing data in OCI Monitoring. Covers metric namespace confusion, alarm threshold gotchas, log collection setup, and common monitoring gaps. Keywords: metrics not showing, alarm not firing, oci_* namespace, metric query, service connector.
version: 2.0.0
---

# OCI Monitoring and Observability - Expert Knowledge

## 🏗️ Use OCI Landing Zone Terraform Modules

**Don't reinvent the wheel.** Use [oracle-terraform-modules/landing-zone](https://github.com/oracle-terraform-modules/terraform-oci-landing-zones) for observability stack.

**Landing Zone solves:**
- ❌ Bad Practice #10: No logging, monitoring, notifications (Landing Zone deploys complete observability)
- ❌ Bad Practice #7: Limited security services (Landing Zone integrates Cloud Guard, VSS, OSMS)

**This skill provides**: Metrics, alarms, and troubleshooting for monitoring deployed WITHIN a Landing Zone.

---

## ⚠️ OCI CLI/API Knowledge Gap

**You don't know OCI CLI commands or OCI API structure.**

Your training data has limited and outdated knowledge of:
- OCI CLI syntax and parameters (updates monthly)
- OCI API endpoints and request/response formats
- Monitoring service CLI operations (`oci monitoring alarm`, `oci monitoring metric`)
- Metric namespaces and MQL (Monitoring Query Language)
- Latest Logging and Service Connector features

**When OCI operations are needed:**
1. Use exact CLI commands from this skill's references
2. Do NOT guess metric namespace names
3. Do NOT assume AWS CloudWatch patterns work in OCI
4. Load reference files for detailed MQL documentation

**What you DO know:**
- General observability concepts
- Alerting and threshold design principles
- Log aggregation patterns

This skill bridges the gap by providing current OCI-specific monitoring patterns and gotchas.

---

## NEVER Do This

❌ **NEVER assume metrics are instant (10-15 minute lag)**
- Metrics published every 1-5 minutes
- Processing delay: 5-10 minutes
- **Total lag**: 10-15 minutes from event to visible metric
- Don't debug "missing metrics" within first 15 minutes of resource creation

❌ **NEVER use `=` for alarm thresholds with sparse metrics**
```
# WRONG - alarm never fires if metric has gaps
MetricName[1m].mean() = 0

# RIGHT - handle missing data
MetricName[1m]{dataMissing=zero}.mean() > 0
```

❌ **NEVER forget metric dimensions (causes "no data")**
```
# WRONG - missing required dimension
CPUUtilization[1m].mean()

# RIGHT - include resourceId dimension
CPUUtilization[1m]{resourceId="<instance-ocid>"}.mean()
```

❌ **NEVER set alarm thresholds without trigger delay (alert fatigue)**
```
# BAD - fires on every CPU spike
CPUUtilization[1m].mean() > 80

# BETTER - sustained high CPU
CPUUtilization[5m].mean() > 80
Trigger delay: 5 minutes (fires after 5 consecutive breaches)
```

## Metric Namespace Gotchas

**OCI Metrics Use Service-Specific Namespaces:**

| Service | Namespace | Example Metric |
|---------|-----------|----------------|
| Compute | `oci_computeagent` | `CPUUtilization`, `MemoryUtilization` |
| Autonomous DB | `oci_autonomous_database` | `CpuUtilization`, `StorageUtilization` |
| Load Balancer | `oci_lbaas` | `HttpRequests`, `UnHealthyBackendServers` |
| Object Storage | `oci_objectstorage` | `ObjectCount`, `BytesUploaded` |

**Common Mistake**: Using wrong namespace (`oci_compute` vs `oci_computeagent`)

## Alarm Missing Data Handling

| Setting | Behavior | Use When |
|---------|----------|----------|
| `treatMissingDataAsBreaching` | Alarm fires if no data | Critical services (outage = breach) |
| `treatMissingDataAsNotBreaching` | Alarm silent if no data | Optional monitoring |
| `{dataMissing=zero}` | Treat missing as 0 | Counters (requests/sec) |

## Log Collection Common Gaps

**Problem**: Logs not showing in Log Analytics

```
Logs not appearing?
├─ Is log enabled on resource?
│  └─ Compute: oci-compute-agent must be running
│  └─ Function: Logging enabled in function config
│
├─ Is Service Connector configured?
│  └─ Source: Log Group → Target: Log Analytics
│  └─ Check: Service Connector status = ACTIVE
│
├─ IAM policy for Service Connector?
│  └─ "Allow any-user to use log-content in tenancy"
│  └─ "Allow service loganalytics to READ logcontent in tenancy"
│
└─ 10-15 minute ingestion lag?
   └─ Wait before debugging
```

## Metric Query Optimization

**Expensive** (slow):
```
# Queries ALL instances
CPUUtilization[1m].mean()
```

**Optimized** (filter by dimension):
```
# Query specific instance
CPUUtilization[1m]{resourceId='<instance-ocid>'}.mean()
```

**Cost**: Queries free, but rate limited (1000 req/min)

## Progressive Loading References

### OCI Monitoring Reference (Official Oracle Documentation)

**WHEN TO LOAD** [`oci-monitoring-reference.md`](references/oci-monitoring-reference.md):
- Need comprehensive list of all OCI service metrics
- Understanding MQL (Monitoring Query Language) in depth
- Implementing complex alarm conditions and composites
- Need official Oracle guidance on Logging and Service Connector
- Setting up Log Analytics and APM integration

**Do NOT load** for:
- Quick alarm setup (examples in this skill)
- Common metric patterns (tables above)
- Troubleshooting decision trees (covered above)

---

## When to Use This Skill

- Alarms: threshold configuration, missing data handling, trigger delay
- Troubleshooting: metrics not showing, alarms not firing, namespace errors
- Log collection: Service Connector, IAM policies, missing logs
- Performance: query optimization, dimension filtering
